For this I'm back and his application we worked on this Gold's application where we can add some goals
here and this is the code we wrote there I haven't changed anything in there.
Now let me showcase the different things that could go wrong and how you fix them.
So let's start simple.
Let's say we have a simple syntax error here where we open our model in the end by setting the Met At
Mode to true.
Let me remove that closing bracket and it's a clearer syntax error it's a error we can and we should
totally a wide because we as a developer made a clear mistake.
A The good thing is even our idea e recognizes this and gives us a warning here though unfortunately
the error it's showing here is not entirely correct.
It says that it's expecting a comma.
Well actually that's not the real problem the real problem is a missing bracket.
Still we get an idea that something's wrong here.
And whilst you still need to think about the issue and you can't blindly use that solution by looking
at that code at some point you should find out that there is a missing bracket.
Even if you forget this and you saved as let's say then the javascript bundle will be built here as
you see I launched this on both Android and iOS and now we're getting this red error screen I was talking
about it again here.
We can simply read the error message.
It's still pointing us at the wrong solution expecting a comma but it does point us at the right code
line.
Here you see it highlights this button title at new goal line so it still shows us where we should look
and that the issue is probably stemming from this line.
We get the same error by the way here in this console and although in our expo def tools here there
you see the same error message all with a hint at the line where does error is coming from.
So you're getting a lot of help for tracking down this issue now here.
It's unfortunately still not picking up that I fixed this error and hence here we see it crashed by
us on Android.
It's not reloading now on Android.
We see a command we can use to reload the app.
We can click down there or press our twice to reload but it's still on picking up the change here even
though I fixed that in code.
So one solution here is to simply stop the packets or restart NPM start.
This happens rarely but sometimes this breaks and then simply restarting this NPM start process is the
thing to do.
And with that I'll rerun it on Android but pressing I by pressing a and on I by pressing I.
And now it relaunch the app on these devices.
Again this will happen rarely but sometimes it will just happens and you can just restarted to get this
back to work correctly.
Now with that running again let me show you an example for the error message you're getting where you
don't have a syntax error but you still have a clear bug in your code.
Let's say when we add a goal here with the goal title we add a check where we see if goal title length
is greater than zero to check that the value is not empty or actually that it is equal to zero which
means the user didn't enter a title.
And in this case we just return which means we're not going to add this goal here and we're all not
going to close the modal.
So we're just ignoring the user input because it's empty.
We might want to show error message.
But for now we'll just do it like this.
Now when we do that it will generally work.
All right here.
Right if I save this and we go back here opened it and I click at you see I can't add an empty goal
I have to enter something for this to disappear.
Now let's say in our goal input component where we are fetching user input where we then forward it
by calling on ADD goal here we forget to do that we forward now here or we forward nothing because we
simply forgot to add this year now our app starts just fine it doesn't break immediately because we
have no clear error in our code no syntax error but if I enter something here and I click Add I get
undefined is not an object evaluating gold high length.
And again this is an error message that helps us.
It informs us that the problem has something to do with something being undefined and that it is related
to this gold title length check.
And then you could dive into the place where you access gold title length and trace down the issue.
So we're having problems getting the length of gold title because it's undefined as it seems while we're
getting it here.
So the error is certainly not here but let's go to the place where at Gold handler is called in the
end.
Now if you remember we're passing this to the on add gold prop here on gold input so we should probably
go to the gold input which you by the way can also do by holding command or control and clicking on
the component name well in there we call on it gold here and oh here we see what the error is of course
in this case I constructed this error a year but you get my point.
Obviously this is an error you could certainly have in your code where you forgot to add it where you
maybe change the way your code works and you forgot to adjust it in all the places and therefore you're
suddenly getting this error.
Now the error message helped us find the issue.